URL_REF: https://observatoriodocinema.bol.uol.com.br/noticias/2017/02/homem-aranha-de-volta-ao-lar-arte-revela-o-visual-do-vilao-shocker


O set de LEGO de Homem-Aranha: De Volta ao Lar está sendo exposto na New York Toy Fair e vem entregando muitas informações sobre o filme. Depois da cena de batalha com o Homem-Aranha e Homem de Ferro (veja aqui), a linha de brinquedos revelou o visual do vilão Shocker, interpretado por Bokeem Woodbine.
Na imagem promocional, divulgada por um usuário do Instagram, Shocker aparece com seu clássico uniforme dos quadrinhos. Confira:
 3/4: New York Toy Fair 2017 was a blast! Thanks to @firstordertransmissions and @makingstarwars, I was lucky enough to attend @Hasbro's off-site event today, and was blown away! This is Hasbro's best year for Toy Fair by far, and all of the Hasbro staff members were a class act! They held an amazing theater presentation talking about everything that they have in store for the next few months. We got sneak peeks at all sorts of toys including new 40th Anniversary Star Wars figures, Guardians of the Galaxy Volume 2 figures, and of course, Spider-Man Homecoming figures! Once I got to the show floor, my jaw literally dropped to the floor when I saw how amazing all of these figures look, especially @TomHolland2013's 6" Marvel Legends Spidey figure with Peter's head. It looks exactly like Tom! When the event was over, Hasbro was kind enough to send everyone home with a gift bag with some toys including Star Wars Black Series Figures and Marvel Legends figures! I was fortunate enough to receive a Black Series Baze Malbus, and a new Marvel Legends Green Goblin! They look absolutely spectacular! Hasbro has really stepped up their game over the past few years, and I am so grateful to @firstordertransmissions and @makingstarwars for giving me the opportunity to attend this year! Thanks again Hasbro for making this an incredible Toy Fair! I can't wait to get my hands on all of the Star Wars 40th Anniversary figures, the Guardians Volume 2 figures, The Last Jedi figures, and of course, the Spider-Man Homecoming figures! #HasbroToyFair #NYTF2017 #GotGVol2 #SpiderManHomecoming
Uma publicação compartilhada por Eric Cameron  (@ericcameronfilms) em Fev 18, 2017 às 5:19 PST
 

Dirigido por Jon Watts, Homem-Aranha: De Volta ao Lar estreia em 6 de julho no Brasil.
Tom Holland (Peter Parker/Homem-Aranha), Zendaya (Michelle), Marisa Tomei (Tia May), Abraham Attah, Donald Glover, Tony Revolori, Hannibal Buress, Selenis Leyva, Bookem Woodbine, Michael Mando, Tyne Daly, Tiffany Espensen, Garcelle Beauvois, Angourie Rice, Martha Kelly e Jona Xiao formam o diversificado elenco.